\section{Natural Number Proofs} \label{npf}

We now explore the ``main goal" of this work : proofs in GF. We commence with 
perhaps the most natural kind of proof one would expect, those over the
inductively defined natural numbers. As a proposed foundational alternative to
mathematics, dependent type theories allow types to depend on terms and
therefore allow propositions which include terms to be encoded as types.

In the simple type theory example, we included \emph{types} and
\emph{expressions} as distinct syntactic categories, whereby the linearization
of a type can't possibly call the linearization of a term. We now experiment
with a small dependently typed programming language with only $\Pi$-types. The
big difference for such a simple fragment like natural numbers in the dependent
setting is the fact that the recursion principle becomes an induction principle.
The types of a sub-expression being evaluated with a recursive call may depend
on the values being computing. Extra work is required in implementing
type-checkers for dependent language because they have to deal with a much more
sensitive and computationally expensive notion of type.

A dependent type theorist will assert that every time mathematicians use a
notion like $\mathbb{R}^n$, they are implicitly quantifying over the natural
numbers, namely $n$, and therefore are referring to a parameterized type, not a
\emph{set}. There are many more elaborate examples of dependency in mathematics,
but because this notation is ubiquitous, we note that the type theorist would
not be satisfied with many expressions from real analysis, because they assert
things about $\mathbb{R}^n$ all the time without ever proving anything by
induction over the numbers. Perhaps this seems pedantic, but it highlights a
large gap between the type-theorists syntactic approach to mathematics and the
mathematicians focus on the domain semantics of her field of interest.

Delaying a more in depth discussion of equality [ref later section], we here
assert that one proves equality in Agda by finding something that is \emph{irrefutably
equal} to itself, where the notion of irrefutably is in some sense gave birth to
subject matter of higher type theory.  Taking this for granted, we begin by
looking at one of the simplest natural numbers proof's : that addition is
associative.

\subsection{Associativity of Natural Numbers} \label{assoc}

We define addition in Agda by recursion on the first argument, and notice that
the sum of two natural numbers is always a natural number. Therefore, agda has
the capacity to always compute the sum of two given natural numbers, via the
defining equations, and indeed $2+2=4$ is irrefutably true. Additionally, we
know that $0$ added to a number is always that number.

\input{latex/nproof}
